# Template p5 project

CART 263 - Artist Statement - The Conversation

For this project, I was excited to recreate a scene from one of my favorite films, “The Conversation”. I chose to recreate the first scene from the film, in which the titular conversation is recorded from a distance by long range microphones. This project is rather simple in terms of interactivity, but it is my hope that it satisfies the requirements in its conceptual intentions and clarity of code.

The program simulates the use of a long range microphone, in which the player uses a scope to navigate across a park filled with a variety of sounds. Although It can be interesting to listen in on different elements of this soundscape at random, the player is encouraged to follow the conversation. This is achieved through the use of a screen-filling sequence of images from the film that appear when the player hovers over the conversation. Aside from an ambient loop that ensures there is never any dead air, all of the sounds move at random and are invisible to the player, aside from this visual cue when arriving at the conversation.

One thing that occurred to me while working on the program was how similar my process was to that of the film’s main character, Harry Caul. I spent a lot of time reconstructing the conversation in Ableton. In the film, the conversation never plays sequentially, from beginning to end, in its entirety. This fragmentation is important to the film's themes and plot, which meant that I had to gather audio clips from several different sections of the movie.

Gluing these pieces together also required a degree of editorial decision-making that had an effect on the meaning of the resulting conversation. For example, the film’s plot hinges on a fatal misunderstanding of emphasis during the line, “He’d kill us if he’d have the chance”. In this case, I decided to mix both versions on top of one another, along with a distorted version, in order to maintain the film’s mystery and skepticism towards straightforward meaning.

As I was working on the audio, I became unsure of how representative this version of the conversation was in relation to the actual scene from the beginning of the movie. Given the film’s thematic concerns surrounding the nature of truth, editing, recording, etc., I decided to embrace this uncertainty. I achieved this by creating a basic visual reference to the fog and smoke of Harry Caul’s dream sequence from later in the film. The park is blurred and covered in a light fog, which I hope gives the sense that this is also not an entirely “truthful” retelling of the conversation as it occurred in the film.

I ran into some frustrations over some things that I will have to ask you about during office hours some time, but otherwise this was a relatively straightforward project. I really enjoyed digging into the script of the film, rebuilding the audio, and having the chance to experiment with spatial audio within a p5 coding environment. I would really like to explore more audio related work in the future. I find it endlessly relaxing to just move the scope around and listen to the various soundscapes that emerge with even such light interactivity.
